Thank you everyone, again welcome everyone. Thank you very much everyone, again welcome,
thank you for participating and making time again. And so thank you very much to everyone.
Thank you. Again now we continue to tell about the teachings of the greatest teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni. And then in the context or in the within the frame of the Ketapati Ven.
I had half advice to the 14 ones that what we've been continually discussing and
interrupting our understanding memories of the past to these practices. And so again for that
reason we should be strengthening our beautiful motivation or strengthening, reactivating our
beautiful attitude or motivation which is so important. And I just say important, we actually
need to progress in the Dharma, in the spiritual Dharma, that's the only way we have to activate
the motivation. Because motivation is the foundation, motivation is the key, attitude is the
foundation,
attitude is the key. Wherever we like to turn, we like to turn Dharma as beautiful Dharma,
that is attitude and motivation. And we like to give Dharma as a kind of casual, normal,
insignificant, that is again motivation and attitude. And we like to turn Dharma in a little
opposite
of the Dharma, more kind of like samsara, emotion. And again it's attitude and motivation.
So therefore this motivation and attitude, what I'm using attitude is really the source,
the root, the cause to bring the power and benefit whichever direction we like to move,
we like to go. That direction and that key is no one else's hand except one's own self.
And therefore, since we are love to ourselves, each of us love ourselves,
and like to help to the other family and the friends, then
that motivation and attitude we should activate, that is really key. So therefore this motivation
is so important at this time. Among all the motivations we have been discussing and talking
to you and reminded to you and to me myself is joy and appreciation. And being graceful, grateful.
All that is what started with this motivation. Our joy and appreciation is to our life,
our situation, circumstances. If I use more simple terminology or more kind of a correct
Dharma treaty, eating endowments, that we have. Every living human beings of all don't have
eating endowments, but we have. It is not just certain, what's called insignificant, casual,
it is really so brave, it's important. And then we have the Dharma. Dharma, we have the
instructions.
Dharma, that is so important, so precious. And then we have the beautiful foundations
such as Buddha Nature. We all, so in a way, we all, not just in a way, we are ready. All the
conditions, the power of the conduct, every aspect, every religion is geared up in our power.
Right now, right this time. Therefore, it's so important to activate, glorify, that beautiful
situation, sometimes less. So it's not kind of like dissipated, fading away, the activated,
renewed, repressive. We dare again to board each other. Kindness compares with thought,
for all living beings. Our son, for the beings. We like to reach enlightenment or become Buddha,
like to reach in the Rana of enlightenment, comparison is the key. Board each other is again
so important. It is really the practices. That is, board each other is automatically is Buddha
enlightenment. So therefore, we activated Buddha right now. Now, not kind of waiting
in the long term, in the future. And we had that attitude or that board, we making mistakes.
Right now, we are in that light. We are in that path, drawn light. We are really activating that,
again, faith comparison, loving kindness, as you all know. We discussed it so many times,
you already know those things. Things are so activated, completed, for all living beings.
Then, to get with this, beauty realizations. And in the Vedic teaching, three Vedic states,
all three Gaya states, those realizations bring up. Reality level, everything is in light state.
That's what in the teaching said. We don't see right now, because due to the
characteristics of our dualities, that duality characteristics, the movement is dissipated,
or taken out, the enlightenment is right here, right here. Not just partially enlightenment,
whole thing, home, song, space in mind, all are enlightenment states, or Buddha states.
That means what? All is menala of loving kindness, compassion, wisdom. That is really is all.
So therefore, also activating that motivation, at least kind of opening the door of that
realization right now, is so important, so special in the teaching said. It is skillful means of
practices. Skillful means by using special techniques to discover quick, quick realizations.
With this, then we go now with it, again, the three frames of what we have discussed.
Whereas, the great master, Gungheeba, and all the great master said, one echo from Buddha's time,
and two great master Gungheeba, and then continued. Every teacher, the girlfriend, great
practitioner,
mentioned about the three novel that is. Three words, novels, I start with it.
Beginner novel, middle novel, and concluding novels. That is very important. And again,
this is nothing but first novel is our motivation, what I've been discussing.
About that, what we are reading, rafuddhi, bodhija, rafuddhi in the devotions. That is really what
post novel is. Rafuddhi, rafuddhi is trust, competence, trust to yourself, trust to the
Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, trust to the spiritual practices. That is really the
simple dog to the Buddha. Every breath, essential meaning. That is rafuddhi, trust, confidence.
And then with that, the devotions, pure joy and appreciation, richness, abundance of reach,
really feel that, activate that with that great joy and reach and blessings in all the connections
and wherever circumstances is blessings, truly is blessings. Bless from the lineage of masters.
Blessings from the Buddha, blessings from the Gharapam or some of them. Any blessings,
all the different situations, in different ways, blessings all are coming to our direction
in your favor. How wonderful, how beautiful. And the same time at the courage and commitment,
we're going to use this for the right purpose, beautiful purpose to bring,
actualize it, to really bring the fruit vision of this nature. Feel that. That is
beginning a novel. With that beginning a novel, then we begin the practices.
We begin the practices, such as the sound. We're talking about six paramattas. Six paramattas is
essential teaching and practice of the entire teaching of the Buddha, Shakyamunas. And this is
the practice of all the great masters who become the great master by practicing the six paramattas.
This is why. And therefore, in the teaching said, "The siddhu paramadai is the great
highway that all the Buddhas and all the enlightenment went on this highway and
lead the enlightenment. And all the Buddhas and all the Sattvas, now they are traveling,
they end once more on this path. And all the Buddhas and all the Sattvas in the future
will join in with this path and going more, moving forward with this. So this is the great one way
that lead to the total enlightenment, total fulfillment, total satisfaction.
Christians, there's nothing else more than this. For that reason, six paramattas is the essence,
convenience, more practice, the entire teaching of the Buddha, Shakyamunas. For 45 years,
our 45 years, Buddha did the teaching, we lead enlightenment at 35. That all combined in these
beautiful six paramattas. So therefore, we are touching to these traits, this beautiful,
really beautiful, that this path is peaceful. This path is appreciation. This six paramata is
appreciation practices, kindness practices, compassion practices, harmony practices,
loving kindness practices, respecting appreciation to all living beings without any discriminations
.
It is the practice of courage and commitment, your effort to the virtues for the good reasons,
good purposes, good purpose for myself, good purpose for all the beings. It is a practice
of the selfishness practices. This is, therefore, it is the great practices, great reading,
the spiritual. Every bundle up with that, truly we become the warriors, as in the teaching always.
Well warrior to the enlightenment, bodhisattva, I mean courageous ones, or the warriors to the
enlightenment. Why? Because of six paramattas. That is this. So we've been talking, we've been
kind of following with again, in the light of his own, or the great masters, we've been discussing
that for a while, and now again we continue to talk with the six paramattas. Six paramata is the
wisdom paramattas. We've been discussing that this is the last time, so I'm not going to talk more
about that, but however the wisdom paramata is the supreme paramattas. Because of having the wisdom
paramata, all the paramata comes. That means all the first five paramattas become the paramattas.
So we go beyond the shows or the transcendental. It makes the transcendental beyond that. And if
that
means, because of wisdom paramata, may see that the yandrous paramata, or the transcendental
practices,
the yandrous becomes the transcendental or the dhanaparamattas, and hila paramattas,
and the chant paramattas, and as well as bhriya paramattas, and the concentration paramata or
dhyam paramattas. Because of the wisdom. Wisdom is the eyes, I said over the day, the Buddha
Chagimani said, the all the paramattas or five paramattas are blind if there is no wisdom.
But when wisdom comes, it gives eyes to every paramattas. Then really it will enter
to their final journeys, pen and destination, bring the fulfillment to all the practitioners.
When wisdom comes, we know all the paramattas. So therefore, it is so powerful and so spacious.
And for that reason, this wisdom is what we are going to discuss today as great monsters,
and the buddhas are taught and lay out, follow that footstep as much as we can,
according our capabilities, or at least we highlight it and keep the root of those
transfer meanings. So therefore, again, that is our wisdom. Now, wisdom is, again, there are many
different ways to explain of the westerns. Those are, in the teaching method, the wisdom of the
related truths, the wisdom of the absolute truths, the wisdom that will benefit all living beings.
Those are, again, one way to make the divisions of the westerns. So as what I said before,
last time I said the world meaning of the westerns, and the benefit of the westerns,
and then the distinctions, or the division of the westerns, those are among those two divisions.
Today we are talking the divisions of the westerns, division of the westerns. And now,
these wisdoms are the divisions in the divided into, as we say, kind of summarized into three
categories.
The related truths, the wisdoms, absolute truths, the wisdoms, and the wisdoms that are going to
help with other beings. All in the song teachings, also I mean according to the teaching,
wisdom, the worldly wisdoms, and the wisdom of the beyond the world, world wisdoms. And through
that,
benefiting wisdoms. But through that, wisdoms that will benefit to the others.
And the most powerful ones in the teaching method, then these ways. And wisdom that comes from the
studying, wisdom that comes from the contemplations, wisdom that comes from the meditations.
So I'm going to follow with these three. So that means studying, contemplating,
and meditation or practices. Those three wisdoms. In that three wisdoms, I also can summarize all
the
others what we meant divisions. And in this way, again, wisdom, every wisdom, also is wisdom. The
sixth paramata, I said the other day, can be summarized into two categories. And those are
skillful means and wisdoms. And that all the, for example, five paramatas, or maybe let's say,
first three paramata is skillful means practices. And the last three paramata is wisdom practices,
or wisdoms. So skillful means and wisdoms. That is it. And the fourth one, that means
the joyful effort, the virtuous paramata, is support to all the other paramata practices.
That is one way to explain. And some great master's teachings mention,
for example, four paramatas are the skillful means practices. That means what? What are those four?
Now I say the eight, because I say the three, now it's the four. How that is? That is the generous
paramata, morality paramata, patient paramata, and the deon paramata is skillful means practices.
And the sixth one, wisdom is a wisdom paramatas. The joyful effort is support to all.
And why this deon paramata is in the skillful means? Generally, deon paramata we divide it,
or not we, in the teaching, divided three. General deon concentrations, regular worldly
concentrations, and districtly understanding concentrations and concentration that will
please in the Buddha's theory. So that means the first two are more conceptual levels.
That concentration is more conceptual. More port, more conceptual. Therefore, it is included.
Also in the skillful means. It's like bears.
And then wisdom is the wisdom. Skillful means the wisdom. Again, this six paramatas can be
summarized
in another way. Not summarized is another, it has another purpose, another pulse. And which is,
under the rich enlightenment or become the Buddha, we need accommodating the two merits.
Two merits is so, so important is crucial. Because two merits will defeat two obscurations
or glorify the two obscurations. It will glorify. And must we all, we all heard
two merits and two obscurations many times. We heard, even we started, many of you know,
gladiators, terminology, and meanings. So these six paramatas is also when we practice
is we are accommodating the two merits. Two merits. And the first merit is known as
accumulation merits, sonam jyecho, in the debate. Sonam jyecho. Second merit is known as, as in
the debate, yishi jyecho. Yishi jyecho. That is wisdom merits. So these first three or four paramat
as
are accumulation merits. Accumulation merits, sonam jyecho, sometimes said, nanti sonam jyecho,
nanti sonam jyecho, in the debate world. Those people who are familiar with the debate world,
nanti sonam jyecho, or sonam jyecho. What means, nanti in debate, now I have another mode.
Nanti means something that you can hold, you can think, you can perceive,
perceive merit that can be perceived and can hold, or something that you can feel I'm enjoying
with subject and object and actions. That means, that merit is ah, then the generosity merits.
Morality merits. And patient merits. And then part of the concentration merit, maybe as I said,
merits. That, of course, they all again combine to merit and to, excuse me, the wisdom they all had
,
everyone has had, but we're talking principles. Principles. So first four paramatas,
principally representing the accumulation merits. And also it's purified the two obscurations,
among the two obscurations. It will purify obscurations of the emotional obscurations.
It purifies, we help, or it is decreasing. And the second merit is the wisdom merits.
Wisdom is then the sixth paramat. That purify then both obscurations.
What? Both obscurations, emotional obscurations, and knowledge obscurations.
In a debate, nyumukvatyapa, shiva-deva. I'm translating, emotional obscurations,
knowledge obscurations. It will purify both obscurations with the support of
skill means of merit. Skill means is a supporters. It is additional habits.
As much as we gave up the accumulation merit, that in the teachings, it will develop more
wisdom merits. It really will come. Therefore, two merits goes by side by side.
Or skill means the wisdom goes side by side. As we use the examples in the teaching as two wings
of the birds to fly in the sky. One wing cannot fly in the sky. Same way, two feet will walk
and pass the distance. One walk, leg will not go very well to passing the distance.
Therefore, skill means in the wisdom or skill means of the accumulation merit,
wisdom of the wisdom merit, both are so important. Now, that true wisdom, whether it is wisdom in
skill
means, whether it is merit, it can summarize. Also, it is like the wisdom that comes from
the study, the wisdom that comes from the contemplation, the wisdom that comes from
the meditation, it is also within that as true merit, and it is both skill means and wisdom.
How that is? According to the teaching, the past truth is accumulation merits.
That means studying and contemplating has accumulated, it is represented more,
it is represented more accumulation merits. And then, the wisdom, the last one is represented
mainly wisdom merits. So, this is a kind of general understanding, overview of the wisdom
parameters.
All these three wisdom. Now, I go a little bit over these three wisdom. Wisdom that is studying,
contemplating, and practices. And then, the practice I am going to ask is in the Tibetan version,
tupa, samba, and gomba. And then tupa hira, samba hira, gomba hira. That means wisdom comes from
the studying, wisdom that comes from the contemplating, or yeah, contemplating,
and the wisdom that comes from meditation or practices. So, that is. Now, the three. So, now,
I go over these wisdom, or the first study, study. Now, study that generally study all this with
knowledge. You are learning knowledge. Again, knowledge is so, so important in the teaching.
Say, it is not just the teaching said, we believe it, it is truly true. Knowledge is in the
teaching
said, it is like supreme light. Knowledge is supreme light, or lame, L-A-N-P. Supreme lame,
that will dispel the darknesses. It is supreme lame, or supreme light now, maybe.
Supreme light. Knowledge is supreme trails. It will grant you all the wishes.
It will purify or remove the power it is. It is the wish for the jewel. It will grant
all the wishes, knowledge. And knowledge is supreme like friend. Your friends,
whenever there are difficult troubles, well-help is support. Knowledge will support us, support us.
And knowledge is great trail, safe trails. Safe trails, like saved in a safe deposit.
You're never going to worry is going to lost it or robbed by someone. Someone. Once you have
knowledge is forever. That knowledge is, is. And knowledge is so powerful to you. It is supreme
powerful like warriors. It will defeat the obstacles. Therefore, in the teaching said,
all the noble ones gave up the knowledge. You should gather knowledge. It's amazing. Start, learn,
develop. Once you learn, you never, when do you know and learn? You don't have to worry.
Go into lost it and drop by someone as we discuss it. You don't have to worry. If in material world
,
wealth, we worry it, decrease it, lost it, robbed. Many animals come, maybe they come, robbed and
wiped by the material wealth. But knowledge, wealth is so, so unique and it's so simple,
so easy. It's right with you all the time. It will do everything to you. Whatever unite is one
cradle
that will support you all the time in the samsara and in the niramas. It's not just a one way homie
.
It's really everywhere it will happen. For that reason, in the teaching orphan man, learn knowledge
Don't feel tired. Don't feel think enough is enough. Never say enough to learn the knowledge.
Good. Something is good for you and good for others. In the teaching said, even you're going
to die tomorrow. You know that you're going to die tomorrow, but still learn, gain the knowledge.
You're creating that beautiful imprint in our soft culture in the strong arts that when you come
born back, it is like coming reappearing as like that. So your trigger, you kept somebody else,
ask please keep that. For me, when I need, I like to come to collect. Same way, even you learn that
day before we're going to die, it will stay with our soft culture in the style. Next life, it will
come back when you need it. Easily will catch up with that. So it is so special, so important.
Knowledge is according to the teaching. It's true. It's always that. So therefore, this studying is
so important. So starting with the work. Starting in, I'm going to say, starting the worldly
knowledge
and then beyond the world. World knowledge of that world. In the teaching said, according
to the Buddhist evaluation, teaching the five, four sciences. Knowledge of the healings,
knowledge of the art, knowledge of the logics, knowledge of the languages. Those are the four
knowledge, knowledge of the healing is like all the healing aspects. Whatever you can learn,
modern, meaning ancient way to healing, all the, and then to be those medicine takes them.
And the Pope Antares established so many really teaching. And then each different country had that.
There are so many ancient knowledges with grandparents as well. Those all is healing
knowledge. Healing, it heals. It's physically healing, mainly physical healing. And then it
also is mentally helping to support it too. So that is all healing knowledge. And art, knowledge of
art is all geometries, geometries, all the mathematics and so forth, dharmas, theaters,
performance. And all those, in the Buddhist teaching said, the art of the mind, art of the
voice, art of the physicals in the teachings. There's so many artists and all the tunes and
all those are art. And those are the knowledge of the arts and the knowledge of the languages.
And many times in the ck term, those all the different languages, that's particularly in
it, very in ancient time talking about the Sanskrit language is very profound and a very
deep issue. And more in terms such as Latin language, Greek languages, all the ancient,
all the languages, they are different way how to put things and their meanings precisely. All
those are known as language, related with the language that is Portuguese, all those things,
also known as synonyms, all those are of the language. And they live with the science of the
logics and the reasons. That means again, investigating, analyzing, examining, contemplating
of these, of the things, of the subject, of the object and really kind of bring
sharpness of their qualities, of what we learned. Exiling that without contradicting and seeing
things, evaluating things, those are like really about the knowledge of the logic and reasons.
Those are known as the whole knowledges of the world, all the knowledges. And that isn't the,
those are studying those things. It's like full and there was, you know, what's called,
and world knowledges. And then in the world, beyond the world knowledges is the knowledge of the
mind.
Sometimes that means many Buddha teachings, always the Buddha teaching, starting of the Vinayas,
starting of the suttas, that are related with the subject of all the teachings in discussing that.
And the subject, those are written by the greater masters, commentaries, or greater masters such as
Nagarjuna, Asenga's of India and the sixth ornament of the world. I mean Basu, what are those six
ornaments? Asenga, Nagarjuna, and Aryadeva, and so this is true. And then Basu, sorry Asenga and
Basu venues are two, those are four great scholars. And then there was another two, one known as
the
master of the Dnaka, and master of the Dharmakati, these two. Those are in mostly Tibetan liter
atures,
always mentioned, six great scholars of the ancient, the Buddhist philosophers. And now these days
his
only dal lama is Mejune, those are the Nalanda great masters. As he said, true, they are all
everything, they all come from the Nalanda monasteries. So they are four great masters of the Nal
anda's
monasteries, but all the eighties of the great masters, those are six. Above that, Aryadeva's
great master, Chinta Raja, Kamala Svelas, Amideya Sohman, Chhandra Kriti's, and Chinta Gomis,
those all known as Indian great masters. So many great masters, they wrote commentaries on the
teachings, such as commentaries on the preponderant teachings of the Buddha Chaturmani, comment
aries
on the vastness teachings of the Buddha Chaturmani, and they wrote so many commentaries, so many
great
like this, just a beacon of the Buddha teachings or the banners of the Buddha teachings. So all
Tiki, which is translated into Tibet, known as the Deindyo, that whenever you live there. In the
Tibet there are so many great masters in the early times, there were also 25 disciples from
Europe and some of the all great masters in the great, like in light of being the same time,
the greatest scholars dropped so many commentaries and so many translated that, and later there are
so many great masters also came in Tibet, one after another, all the schools of the Tibetan
Buddhism.
All those are great masters in Kimpas, great masters of Japan, great masters so far, really,
so many great masters came, and also in the great master who visited very as the
Gopi Masambhava, Ajay Maasvashanta Rakita, and Articias. All those teachings are known as
commentaries on the Buddha teachings, because they exactly explore the meaning of the Buddha's
teachings
as the Buddha told. Why everyone is following the Buddha? Because the Buddha's teaching is
so accurate, so precise, so simple, so directed. It's not ups and don'ts and all these, nothing
really there is leaves, kind of put on the goggles up there. Exactly direct teachings,
that, and also it's just really teachings that when you listen in the beginning time, it is
soothing
in the coming. When you contemplate all these teachings, then you understand the plough,
the meaning of the teachings. When you begin to practice and meditate all these, it gains the
result as is mentioned in the teachings. Therefore, it has nothing contradictory,
contradictory. It's not just believing, not presuming, not just thinking, oh it is,
these are not naive teachings. It is accurate, simple, direct, blend where things are teachings
on that. So therefore, everyone follows the Buddha teachings, all that. Because of that,
they gain that great wisdom and realizations. They are not just become the wise scholars,
their heart is filled with love, kindness, compassion, humble, simple, drawn to the earth,
that every goodness call it, we explain or we could tell in a human world, really they have all
that
drawn to the earth, humble, simple, respectful, politeness, caring and concerning, concerning
beautiful beings, simple beings, humble beings. Truly they are really that. And they know those
great mastery in the Tibetas. Those are in the intellectual level, they are genius.
They read books and once in time, then the other stood. Their memory is a photograph of memories.
But yet, so humble, so simple, so casual, so drawn to the earth with full of common sense,
full of really humble, simple and mental with all everyone. Because their heart is filled with love
,
bodhicca, simple talk, bodhicca. That's why all is following these teachings. So those are,
what do you start? What do you start? Then when you start teaching, teaching and of course,
in the teaching of open measure, that in such as world of my perfect teacher,
explaining so plain and so beautifulness. A world in the mistakes of the listening,
when you're starting, those are the what? The errors of the three errors, three errors.
And such as, and when you're, when you're in the teaching, when you're listening or when you're
in the practicing or the teaching, receiving the teaching, you have to be attentively listening.
Listening the teachings. And you don't even listen. Your ears not listening. It looks like the
board
is upside down. All is upside. No matter how much water comes on that, it won't hold anything.
Just it goes. So that is errors. Use the examples. Errors of the ears, upside down of the board.
That is one of the errors. Second errors. When you receive the teaching, even your concept of
listening, listening, listening, you have to maintain, keep that what you learned in the heart
and mind. If you don't keep that with mindfulness, then it is known as the even borders up on like
kind of normal way and receive the water. But if it is whole underneath, water won't stay.
It just goes away. Same way is the yilam and the shaddart of the tomb in Tibet said.
Means the board that has a hole goes, what is it if you don't hold? Then even you receive the
teaching, you didn't catch anything. It just really goes away. Then out the board is not upside
down.
The board has no hole and it is perfect. But while you listen in the teaching,
don't listen teaching with emotions. Emotions. What that means? How many emotions we have?
We have three principal emotions. Attachment. Anger. Jealous. Jealous. Or any other kind of
communication it moves. And we listen, teaching with that. And what did the teaching say? It is
arrows. Arrows must be the teaching you are mixing natural with ozone. Even if the teaching is like
natural, but then you will mix the ozone. Then it is really not good quality of that. You mixed.
So therefore, free from the three arrows. Three mistakes or three arrows of the containers.
Then both of the teachers say so clearly, precisely, I won't believe a bit of those.
What are they? Those are known as them. Six stains. Six stains. Six stains.
And those are, as I've said, they are the first is the arrows. Second is uncarnivally not
concentrated
or you're not devoted. And you're not really interested. Even you're on the teachings.
Teaching, you're not so interested. And then the fourth one is, even you're in the teaching,
your mind is wandering into the object of five senses. Everywhere all the wondrous.
And then you're so much kind of like dullness just sleeping on the teachings. That is one of the
strings. And then you're kind of like bored and tired or the teaching is just boring or I'm not
kind of interested. It's just the same thing. Or it's too long or too short and making comment.
Instead
really observing the knowledge and visit to the art and with joy and apache, making comments on
that.
Those are all known as arrows. States of the listening knowledges, starting knowledges.
And then there is six not, five not holding, keeping to maintaining five. I'm not going to
list those that. You look that, you're not interested in that. Avoiding all those things
with the four attitudes you should have. What did the teaching say that I use in the dungkok of
Ando? Again in the words of my patterned teacher, since clearly in the dungkok of the suttaras.
And the Buddha says, the Buddha said, you should think, you should have the attitude
the teacher is a doctor, doctor's attitude. You tell yourself as a patient,
teaching is you receive the medicines, prescription pills and structures.
And the practice is you're applying the medicine to yourself. So it will cure the disease.
Those are the poor intentions, poor attitudes. You should really keep this. In the Buddha teaching,
each of us read what even Buddha taught him and when he is researching the teachings,
even just poor lines of the words, poor lines of the word to the Muslims, he spent so much effort.
And when Buddha was as the bodhisattva before he got enlightened, really so many beautiful stories.
Buddha spent so much effort, even sometimes his own life spent to gain the wisdom,
to receive the teachings. Teaching is so important. It's knowledge, it's wisdom.
I say it may be an area, but the trader, it's trading. Knowledge should be honourate. Yes,
field is rare, field is so precious, field is so good. Happy with that,
receiving the teaching, absorbing the teaching. Teaching, that is what is really known as
learning knowledge. Learning the knowledge of studying. So you now learn it. That is studying.
Now when you really learn that, when you receive that teaching from the teacher or when you read
the books, when you know something, now you have to think that meaning. You have to think of the
word meaning, think of the meanings itself, think of the meaning of the one words. What's
explaining
that? And what is the direct meaning? What is the indirect meaning? What is the direct meaning?
Kind of thinking of absorbing that, reflecting mind with that word and meanings, again and again,
kind of make more familiar to yourself. That is known as words that comes from the studies.
First it is studying. First is your learning, but then now you gain something from that.
You learn something tangibles. You know the meaning, what is playing. Someday you know that.
That is the knowledge of the learning or studying. "Tupashira", as I said earlier, "Tupa" and "Tup
ashira".
"Tupa" means to be studying. "Shigoshida" means "Tupashira" means wisdom that comes from
the studies. So now you started, but also you got some words. That is foundation.
Fondation of the gained, higher and a deeper wisdom, such as wisdom of the contemplations,
wisdom of the meditations. So now first is studies. That is so, so important that,
and then particularly this time, what great mass department would say they're teaching,
that at least you should study what you're going to practice. What you're going to practice. You
should learn that. You should learn that and then familiar that. That is something new knowledge,
new wisdom is now shining in your mind of the alliance. So that is my brief talk for today.
And thank you very much again for participating. Thank you so much everyone and thank you Jackie
and then tomorrow we talk what's called the wisdom that comes from the contemplation and the wisdom
that comes from also maybe meditation and practice. And so we see how can you do that. Okay. Thank
you
everyone. Now we do the healing practice.